# mids_w207_music_genre/reference_materialA collection of useful reference material for the project.I have added highlights to sections that seemed interesting to me.  In the case of longer documents, I also placed bookmarks in the pdf file to help navigate to sections of interest.**2002-07 Music Genre Classification of Audio Signals**G. Tzanetakis and P. Cook, "Musical genre classification of audio signals," in IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 293-302, July 2002, doi: 10.1109/TSA.2002.800560.Abstract:Musical genres are categorical labels created by humans to characterize pieces of music. A musical genre is characterized by the common characteristics shared by its members. These characteristics typically are related to the instrumentation, rhythmic structure, and harmonic content of the music. Genre hierarchies are commonly used to structure the large collections of music available on the Web. Currently musical genre annotation is performed manually. Automatic musical genre classification can assist or replace the human user in this process and would be a valuable addition to music information retrieval systems. In addition, automatic musical genre classification provides a framework for developing and evaluating features for any type of content- based analysis of musical signals.In this paper, the automatic classification of audio signals into an hierarchy of musical genres is explored. More specifically, three feature sets for representing timbral texture, rhythmic content and pitch content are proposed. The performance and relative importance of the proposed features is investigated by training statistical pattern recognition classifiers using real-world audio collections. Both whole file and real-time frame-based classification schemes are described. Using the proposed feature sets, classification of 61% for ten musical genres is achieved. This result is comparable to results reported for human musical genre classification.**2006-11 Music Retrieval: A Tutorial and Review**Nicola Orio, "Music Retrieval: A Tutorial and Review," in Foundations and Trends(R) in Information Retrieval, Vol. 1, No 1 (November 2006) 1–90 (c) November 2006 Nicola Orio DOI: 10.1561/1500000002Abstract:The increasing availability of music in digital format needs to be matched by the development of tools for music accessing, filtering, classification, and retrieval. The research area of Music Information Retrieval (MIR) covers many of these aspects. The aim of this paper is to present an overview of this vast and new field. A number of issues, which are peculiar to the music language, are described—including forms, formats, and dimensions of music—together with the typologie of users and their information needs. To fulfil these needs a number of approaches are discussed, from direct search to information filtering and clustering of music documents. An overview of the techniques for music processing, which are commonly exploited in many approaches, is also presented. Evaluation and comparisons of the approaches on a common benchmark are other important issues. To this end, a description of the initial efforts and evaluation campaigns for MIR is provided.**2011-04 A Survey of Audio-Based Music Classification and Annotation **Zhouyu Fu, Guojun Lu, Kai Ming Ting, and Dengsheng Zhang, "A Survey of Audio-Based Music Classification and Annotation," in IEEE Transactions on Multimedia," Vol. 13, No. 2, April 2011 303Abstract: Music information retrieval (MIR) is an emerging research area that receives growing attention from both the research community and music industry. It addresses the problem of querying and retrieving certain types of music from large music data set. Classification is a fundamental problem in MIR. Many tasks in MIR can be naturally cast in a classification setting, such as genre classification, mood classification, artist recognition, instrument recognition, etc. Music annotation, a new research area in MIR that has attracted much attention in recent years, is also a classification problem in the general sense. Due to the importance of music classification in MIR research, rapid development of new methods, and lack of review papers on recent progress of the field, we provide a comprehensive review on audio-based classification in this paper and systematically summarize the state-of-the-art techniques for music classification. Specifically, we have stressed the difference in the features and the types of classifiers used for different classification tasks. This survey emphasizes on recent development of the techniques